in this video
Let us learn the types of time complexity functions
and their comparison
The first one we are going to learn
is big O of 1 that is constant time function
Whatever may be the input these algorithms only take constant
time to produce the output
For example the odd or even number problem, positive or negative
number problem etc.
When we project the growth of this constant time function
in a graph it will remain the same like this
The second one we are going to discuss is the
big O of law again or logarithmic
time function
Any algorithm which takes log n time to produce the
result will come under Logarithmic time complexity
function for example the binary search algorithm
And when we project the logarithmic time function
it will follow this curve
The third one is big O of n or linear time
function. Any algorithm whose time complexity is directly proportional to
the size of input comes under linear time complexity function
for example finding an element from and unsorted array
And when we project linear time function in graph
we will get in line like this. The next one
that we're going to discuss is Big O of nlogn
Any algorithm which takes nlogn time to produce
the results will come under the linearithmic time function
for example the merge sort algorithm
And when we plot linearithmic time function in the graph, we
will get a curve like this
The next one is big O of n square
That is quadratic time function
Any algorithm whose time complexity is  directly proportional to the
squared size of input comes under this category.
Some examples are selection sort and bubble sort algorithms and
when we project the quadratic time function in a graph
we will get this curve
The next one is big of n raised 3 or
cubic time functions and any algorithm whose time complexity is
directly proportional to the cube of size of input comes
under cubic time complexity function
An example is any algorithm which uses three looping statements
of size n and then we project a cubic time
function
It will follow this curve
The next one is big O of 2 raised to n
There is exponential time function
An algorithm that takes 2 raised to n, time is
considered an exponential time algorithm
For example finding Nth Fibonnaci num
and if we plotted in a graph it will
be something like this
The exponential time can be anything
It may be 2 raised to n, it
Maybe 3 raised to n
Or it may be n raised to n
If we compare the time complexity functions the order will
be like this one less than Logn less than n
less than nLogn less than n^2 less than
n^3 less than 2 raised to n less than
3 raised to n less than etcetera less than
n raised to n
If we consider square root time complexity here then
it comes between logn and n
That is the square root of N is greater than
Logn and it is less than than n time function
so we can place square root of n here
Now let's take some n values and see how the
number grows for each time complexity functions
Based on this result we can understand that big O of 1
is the fastest time function and n power n
is the slowest one
And also when n increases, the exponential time complexity function
grows drastically compared to other functions. So, we should avoid
writing algorithms that take exponential time
But every problem is unique
Some problems won't have an easy solution but whatever the
problem is, we should always try to reduce the time
complexity of the algorithm for example for some problems
if you come up with big O of n square algorithm,
try to reduce it to big O of n by using
a better data structure
programming technique always tried to reduce the time complexity of
an algorithm as minimal as possible.
Minimal the time
complexity, the more efficient your algorithm will be.
So, understanding these time functions and their comparison is very
important in algorithm analysis